In the last video we recapped on why the value of this inside of a method inside of a class is so important.
If we ever want to call some other method inside of a class or reference some instance variable or whatever
else of value of this must be set equal to the instance of the class right now.
When we call this dot start from our button event listener the value of this is not what we it to be.
It has been overridden and the value of this inside out method is instead equal to our button that we
are clicking on which definitely doesn't have a method called important method to call.
So we need to essentially make that error message right there go away.
So to make that go away we're going to review the three different ways that we can determine the value
of this inside of a method so let's get to it.
Let's review those three different ways okay.
So the way that we're going to interpret this diagram right here whenever we want to determine what
the value of this is going to be inside of a function we're gonna ask ourselves this question first
we're gonna ask ourselves did we define a function with an arrow function.
If so that is the answer to what the value of this is if this is not true.
We're going to move on to question two If that is not true.
We're going to fall down to the kind of all other cases category here.
So essentially we go down the list and we stop at the first place that we can answer yes to Let's first
review what it means to use an arrow function and what the value of this inside there will be if we
do use an arrow function.
So if we define a function with an arrow function and then we access this inside that arrow function
here's what we can determine what the value of this will be.
We can use a little trick.
So right above our era function we're going to find the first valid line and right counsel dot log this
on that first valid line in the value of this inside the arrow functional the equal to whatever was
console logged from that console log that we added in we'll give you a very quick demonstration of this
because this rule will actually make a lot of sense.
Once you see a practical demonstration of it okay.
So back over here I'm gonna go down to the bottom of the file and we're going to write out a couple
of examples really quickly.
First I'm going to comment out timer dot start.
So we don't get any kind of erroneous console log messages that will kind of throw off this demonstration
we're going to do then down here.
I'm going to write out an arrow function called print this and inside of here I'd bet as you'd guess
we'll do a console log of this.
Now here's the question What is the value of this going to be equal to inside of here.
Whenever we call it print this.
Well if we want to determine what this console log will result in or what the value of this is we can
take a look at the era function we're going to find the first valid line of code above the arrow function.
So that would be like this right here.
That's the first valid line.
And right there we will add in a console dot log of this.
So now the value of this inside the function is going to be equal to the value of this outside the function.
These two console logs will be absolutely identical.
And so we could check that by calling print this I'm going to save this file.
Look back over refresh and we'll see that in both cases we get window which is essentially the global
context inside of JavaScript when we're executing code inside the browser.
So this definitely means that this first rule worked out correctly.
Let's take a look at a little bit more complex example of how to use this little trick around arrow
functions so I'm going to define a new object that I'll call about colors inside of here.
I'm going to define a method called print color and then we're going to eventually inside of here define
a function called Print This once again and inside there I'll do a console dot log of this.
And then Emily after it I will run print this.
Now once again in order to determine what the value of this is going to be inside there.
We could add a console log on the line right above right above the error function.
I'm going to add in console dot log this.
And once again the value of this is going to be identical between those two console log statements.
Let's first comment out that will block right there and just run print color by itself and see what
the console log normally would be.
So down here I'll do colors dot print color I'm going to save this look back over refresh and so normally
the value of this inside of that method would be the object itself like the entire object that we just
created.
This colors object.
So that means that inside of that era function the value of this is going to be equal to what the colors
object as well.
So I'll save this now with all that stuff uncommon did refresh.
Run it again and we'll see the identical console log.
In both cases OK.
So again that is the rule for determining the value of this inside of an arrow.
Function let's not take a look at the second way or kind of if we don't define a function with an arrow
function.
How then do we decide what the value of this is going to be inside their so the second check we're going
to do we're going to see it did we call the function with BIND call or apply when we invoked it as a
quick reminder bind call and apply our built in functions that belong to all functions inside of javascript
that we create we can use bind call and apply to call a function in a very special way.
The first argument to all three of bind call and apply is going to be the value of this that we want
to execute the function with.
Now this note right here is really confusing.
So let's just write a real quick code example right away.
I'm going to delete the colors example and I will replace it with a new function that I will call print
this.
And this time I'm going to define it with a function keyword is if I defined it with an arrow function
then we would use that rule instead of stick a second one then inside of here I'll do a console dot
log of this as usual and now I'm going to invoke this function right here by using call.
So I gonna call print this I'm going to invoke it using call instead of calling it directly.
And now the first argument to call right here is going to be the value of this inside of the function
so I'm going to put in here.
How about a object with a color of red it's now in print.
This gets executed.
The value of this inside of it is going to be equal to that object right there.
So I'll say this.
I'm gonna go back over refresh and sure enough.
There we go.
So again if we make use of call first argument is going to override the value of this inside there we
can do the same thing with apply as well so I'll save this as well refresh we get the same exact results
if we don't call the function with apply so if we just call the function directly the value of this
is going to be a little bit more unpredictable.
Let's refresh and we see that in this case it is equal to the window.
So again it is very clear that we call the function with BIND call or apply that is going to override
the value of this inside the function.
So that is the second check that we always do.
So now we follow on to the last case here.
If we don't define the function with an error function and if we don't use bind color apply we fall
into all other cases and in order to determine what the value of this is going to be inside the function
we take a look at where we invoke the function we take a look at whatever is to the left of the dots
inside of the function call and that is what the value of this is going to be equal to.
Now this is another scenario where the note I have right here is a little confusing.
So let's do a quick example again trying to delete this example I'm going to create a new object again
called colors inside of here I'll make a method called print color and inside there I'll do a console
log of this.
Now how would we run the method print color to run that method.
We would call colors dot print color.
Now here's the trick we're gonna take a look at this.
These rails right here to determine what the value of this is going to be inside of this function.
When we call it.
So we first say do we have an error function.
No definitely don't.
Are we calling the function to bind color apply.
No definitely not.
OK.
So we fall into this other case right here.
So in order to determine what the value of this is going to be inside this function when we call it
we take a look at the period to the left of the function name that period right there and we look at
whatever variable is to the left of it.
In this case the colors object because the colors object is to the left of that period the value of
this inside of print color is going to be equal to colors.
So this right here is what this is going to be.
Let's save this and we can verify that really easily.
Sorry fresh again and sure enough I see print color we can really abuse this rule right here to really
demonstrate how it works very easily.
So let me give you a quick example.
I'm gonna create another object right underneath colors and I'll call this one like random object and
I'll give it a property of like a is one like so and then going to assign random object a new property
called print color and I'm going to assign to that property right there.
The print color function from the colors object it's also colors dot print
you'll notice here I'm not calling print color it's not being invoked I'm just taking the function and
assigning it to the random object on a property called print color.
So this line of code right here is equivalent to if I just copy pasted that function down like so fully
equivalent let's now tried to call random object dot print color it's a random object dot print color
it's now we're going to define a method that is defined inside of the colors object but what this method
is defined inside of doesn't govern the value of this inside the function instead the rule that we fall
into is this one right here and two to determine the value of this inside the method call.
We take a look at whatever it is to the left of the dot when we invoke the method.
So here's we invoke the method we're gonna take a look at the dot and what is still left it is random
object.
So now when we call a print color right here we're not going to see a value of this being console log
that is the colors object.
Instead we're going to see the random object.
So I'll save this.
Go back over refresh and there we go.
We see a console log of the random object not the colors one.
OK.
So that is it.
That is our three big rules right here.
This is how we determine the value of this.
So now the inevitable question is how does this solve our problem.
Right.
How are we going to fix the issue we have where we need to call starts and have it always give us the
same value of this.
Well in order to make sure that we can enforce the value of this inside the start function we're going
to just simply make sure that we fall into case one or two.
So in other words in order to make sure the value of this inside of start is always the instance of
timer that we want it to be we're going to define that function using an arrow function or we're going
to call it using bind call or apply.
So that's how we're gonna fix this problem.
Let's take a quick pause right here because this is a very long video we're going to come back the next
section or next video and wrap all this this stuff up rather quickly so quick pause I'll see you in
just a minute.